So I am Jason Lengstorf.
I am very excited to be here
talking to you today about Astro.
Astro is a new-ish framework,
it's been around for a couple years.
It is built on a lot of
really exciting modern tech.
And the thing that I like about
it the most is just kind of what
it unlocks without asking for too much.
So we'll talk a little bit about
what all those things mean.
But yeah,
I guess let's just dive right in.
So what is Astro?
Astro is a web framework,
first and foremost.
It allows you to build websites and
web apps.
It ships zero JavaScript by default, which
is probably the thing that I think is
the most novel about it when you
compare it to other frameworks today.
And it relies on this concept
called partial hydration.
And so what partial hydration
means is that you're able to say,
here's my website.
And for the vast majority of websites,
not that much of it moves, right?
You've got a lot of content and
that content isn't interactive.
It's not dynamic, it doesn't
change while the page is loaded.
But historically what we've done is if
we wanna build with modern developer
experience tool chains like React or
Svelte or Vue or any of those,
you end up with this problem
where a bunch of static content
ends up needing to be run by JavaScript.
So you've got a lot of dynamic stuff on
the page that never actually does anything
dynamic.
And so the tradeoff there is that you
get this nice developer experience, but
for people consuming the website,
they're loading and
executing a lot of script that
doesn't actually do anything, right?
So what Astro does is it takes
all of that dynamic script,
and by default,
moves it to just HTML and CSS.
So if you take an Astro site, you get
to build it using Astro components, or
you can plug in React or
Svelte or Vue or whatever.
And those components will be compiled on
the server, turned into HTML and CSS,
and by default, just shipped as is.
And for the vast majority of websites and
the vast majority of web pages
even on dynamic websites,
that is the right choice, because most
of that content, again, isn't changing.
It's not dynamic, it's not interactive, so
you don't wanna ship that extra page away.
You want something that just
lists things on a page, and
HTML and CSS is the best way to do that.
If you want something to be interactive,
this is where partial hydration comes in.
You can mark an individual component
in Astro as interactive by saying
client load or client only or
something like that, which is a signal
to Astro to take just this one piece and
make it interactive again.
So this is a really powerful way
to work because it allows you to,
by default, make the best
decision possible for both, or
I guess, for not just both, but for
maintainability, for deliverability, for
consumability, for performance,
for lack of complexity.
And all of those things just work,
it just happens by default.
And when you need it, you say, hey,
I need this part to be dynamic, and
Astro lets you do that.
It lets you bring in that
dynamic content with just
one extra attribute on
any given component.
It's also UI agnostic, I talked about this
a little bit, but it's designed in such
a way that you can put any UI framework
that you're comfortable writing.
So if you if you like to write React, you
can write React components in Astro and
still get all of these benefits.
You can write Vue, Svelte, Solid.
I think Lit works in here.
So anything that you wanna use,
you can probably find
a plug-in to run it in Astro.
And again, by default, that's only going
to be for the developer experience, and
what you get out the other
side is static HTML and CSS.
So why should you use it?
One of the things that I think is most
exciting about Astro is that it's
extremely fast to get started.
We're gonna start from a starter repo
today to get some of the the CSS and
things that we don't wanna
spend a lot of time writing,
but the getting started experience with
Astro is run by CLI, and it's magical.
I'll demo that in a little bit.
It's very fast to build.
Because Astro doesn't ship a lot of
moving parts, you are capable of
getting something up and running in
extremely short turnaround times.
If you wanna get a landing page up today,
you can probably do it.
And because of how it only ships HTML and
CSS by default,
you can also get it shipped to production.
Today you can build the whole thing.
The thing we're gonna build today is
a very full featured site that we will
deploy by the end of today, and
we're gonna deploy it on, mostly,
just a static CDN, with a little bit
of dynamic content to handle the pieces
that are actually dynamic.
It's very fast to deploy.
You can deploy it to just about any
platform because it, again, by default,
only needs a CDN.
So you are able to deploy it to AWS,
to CloudFlare, Netlify, Vercel,
wherever you wanna go, it works.
It's very fast to adopt incrementally.
And this is probably the part that
I think is not the most exciting,
but maybe the most relevant to a lot
of folks, is a lot of these frameworks,
when you see somebody talk about it,
they're talking about them
from the context of,
you're going to start from scratch.
You're going to all-in
adopt this framework and
change everything over to it, and
that's how you get the benefits.
And if you only incrementally adopt it,
when you have problems,
a lot of these frameworks will tell you,
well, yeah,
you have to fully adopt
the framework to get the benefits.
And the thing that I find really
exciting about Astro is that Astro is
a per page benefit.
You can adopt Astro one page
at a time in your stack, and
those pages will benefit from using Astro.
So it's really nice, and because it works
with whatever UI framework you're probably
already using at work, you can bring
these pages over without having to
rewrite all the functionality of your app.
You can take the existing React components
and bring them into an Astro page and
just migrate your homepage to start, or a
particular landing page or whatever it is.
And use a reverse proxy or something
to make that one page run on Astro,
and everything else runs
on your existing stack.
So it's a really nice way to
incrementally move to a modern stack
if you're currently working in something
that would be way too big to try to
migrate all at once to a new stack.
It ships web standards.
Most of what you're gonna be working
with in Astro is just stuff that's
documented on MDN.
You're not going to be using a whole
lot of custom invented stuff on Astro..
What Astro has done is they've assembled
things that are just web standards and
put them together in a way that allows you
to mostly use knowledge you already have.
And again, because you're combining
your web standards knowledge with your
framework UI knowledge, you kind of
just come in knowing how Astro works.
There's only a handful of things you have
to learn to be able to use Astro really
effectively.
And like I said earlier,
it can be deployed anywhere.
By default, it's HTML and CSS.
There's nothing more
versatile than HTML and CSS.
And when you do get into
that JavaScript part,
depending on whether you're shipping it
server-side rendered or client-rendered,
if it's client-rendered, again,
any CDN can host an Astro site.
You don't need specialized hosting.
You don't need to pay the company that
builds the framework to run your hosting.
You can put it on S3 with CloudFront and
run it for just about nothing.
Netlify, Vercel, Cloudflare,
they all host it.
You can also run it in
a server full environment.
You can put it on render or
fly or whatever you want, and
it'll work there as well.
Question?
>> Yeah,
could you compare it to Eleventy at all?
>> Yes, so Eleventy and Astro share
a lot of the foundational philosophy.
And one of the things that I really,
really like about Eleventy is that it
took the philosophy of, do as little
as possible to give the user the least
amount of work to do to
consume your content, right?
And Astro is similar in that both of them,
by default,
are not putting out any JavaScript.
You're writing pages, those pages get
compiled down to HTML and CSS, and
they ship to the browser.
Where they differ is that Astro is a
little less restrictive about JavaScript.
So Eleventy kinda has a stance of,
don't use JavaScript.
It's stance on JavaScript is,
if you want it, you can use it, but
you're on your own.
You have to write custom JavaScript and
put it into your Eleventy templates, and
Eleventy, it just ignores them,
it passes through.
So that can be a good
restriction to put in place,
depending on what you're trying to build.
But in a lot of real-world scenarios,
that's where people start to say, well,
Eleventy doesn't do what I need to
do because I need a login form,
I need this other thing.
And so Eleventy has some ways of dealing
with that that I'm not gonna get into.
But Astro took a different approach,
which is, we're not against JavaScript,
we just think you should use only
the tools that you need, right?
All you actually need for this job is HTML
and CSS, so that's all we're gonna ship.
If you need JavaScript, of course,
we're gonna ship JavaScript.
We'll compile your React and put it up on
the page and rehydrate it for you and make
it work, just like Gatsby or Next or Remix
or any of these other frameworks would do.
But they only do it when you need it.
And that's the big tradeoff between
a Next and a Remix or one of those,
those frameworks are saying you
must go all in on JavaScript
without doing a lot of work
to turn JavaScript off.
Eleventy says you can't have JavaScript
unless you write all of the JavaScript
yourself.
And Astro is kind of in the why not both
category, where you don't have to use
JavaScript, and in fact, won't unless
you specifically ask for it, but
when you ask for it, it is a first
class citizen in the framework.
And so that's really why I
think Astro is exciting.